README.md, before:

# SuperTest 

[![Coveralls][coverage-badge]][coverage]
[![Build Status][travis-badge]][travis]
[![Dependencies][dependencies-badge]][dependencies]
[![PRs Welcome][prs-badge]][prs]
[![MIT License][license-badge]][license]

HTTP assertions made easy via [superagent](http://github.com/visionmedia/superagent).

## About

The motivation with this module is to provide a high-level abstraction for testing
HTTP, while still allowing you to drop down to the [lower-level API](https://visionmedia.github.io/superagent/) provided by superagent.

## Getting Started

Install SuperTest as an npm module and save it to your package.json file as a development dependency:

```bash
npm install supertest --save-dev
```

  Once installed it can now be referenced by simply calling ```require('supertest');```

## Example

You may pass an `http.Server`, or a `Function` to `request()` - if the server is not
already listening for connections then it is bound to an ephemeral port for you so
there is no need to keep track of ports.

SuperTest works with any test framework, here is an example without using any
test framework at all:

```js
const request = require('supertest');
const express = require('express');

const app = express();

app.get('/user', function(req, res) {
  res.status(200).json({ name: 'john' });
});

request(app)
  .get('/user')
  .expect('Content-Type', /json/)
  .expect('Content-Length', '15')
  .expect(200)
  .end(function(err, res) {
    if (err) throw err;
  });
```

Here's an example with mocha, note how you can pass `done` straight to any of the `.expect()` calls:

```js
describe('GET /user', function() {
  it('responds with json', function(done) {
    request(app)
      .get('/user')
      .set('Accept', 'application/json')
      .expect('Content-Type', /json/)
      .expect(200, done);
  });
});
```

You can use `auth` method to pass HTTP username and password in the same way as in the [superagent](http://visionmedia.github.io/superagent/#authentication):

 ```js
describe('GET /user', function() {
  it('responds with json', function(done) {
    request(app)
      .get('/user')
      .auth('username', 'password')
      .set('Accept', 'application/json')
      .expect('Content-Type', /json/)
      .expect(200, done);
  });
});
```

One thing to note with the above statement is that superagent now sends any HTTP
error (anything other than a 2XX response code) to the callback as the first argument if
you do not add a status code expect (i.e. `.expect(302)`).

If you are using the `.end()` method `.expect()` assertions that fail will
not throw - they will return the assertion as an error to the `.end()` callback. In
order to fail the test case, you will need to rethrow or pass `err` to `done()`, as follows:

```js
describe('POST /users', function() {
  it('responds with json', function(done) {
    request(app)
      .post('/users')
      .send({name: 'john'})
      .set('Accept', 'application/json')
      .expect(200)
      .end(function(err, res) {
        if (err) return done(err);
        done();
      });
  });
});
```

You can also use promises:

```js
describe('GET /users', function() {
  it('responds with json', function() {
    return request(app)
      .get('/users')
      .set('Accept', 'application/json')
      .expect(200)
      .then(response => {
          assert(response.body.email, 'foo@bar.com')
      })
  });
});
```

Expectations are run in the order of definition. This characteristic can be used
to modify the response body or headers before executing an assertion.

```js
describe('POST /user', function() {
  it('user.name should be an case-insensitive match for "john"', function(done) {
    request(app)
      .post('/user')
      .send('name=john') // x-www-form-urlencoded upload
      .set('Accept', 'application/json')
      .expect(function(res) {
        res.body.id = 'some fixed id';
        res.body.name = res.body.name.toLowerCase();
      })
      .expect(200, {
        id: 'some fixed id',
        name: 'john'
      }, done);
  });
});
```

Anything you can do with superagent, you can do with supertest - for example multipart file uploads!

```js
request(app)
  .post('/')
  .field('name', 'my awesome avatar')
  .attach('avatar', 'test/fixtures/avatar.jpg')
  ...
```

Passing the app or url each time is not necessary, if you're testing
the same host you may simply re-assign the request variable with the
initialization app or url, a new `Test` is created per `request.VERB()` call.

```js
request = request('http://localhost:5555');

request.get('/').expect(200, function(err){
  console.log(err);
});

request.get('/').expect('heya', function(err){
  console.log(err);
});
```

Here's an example with mocha that shows how to persist a request and its cookies:

```js
const request = require('supertest');
const should = require('should');
const express = require('express');
const cookieParser = require('cookie-parser');

describe('request.agent(app)', function() {
  const app = express();
  app.use(cookieParser());

  app.get('/', function(req, res) {
    res.cookie('cookie', 'hey');
    res.send();
  });

  app.get('/return', function(req, res) {
    if (req.cookies.cookie) res.send(req.cookies.cookie);
    else res.send(':(')
  });

  const agent = request.agent(app);

  it('should save cookies', function(done) {
    agent
    .get('/')
    .expect('set-cookie', 'cookie=hey; Path=/', done);
  });

  it('should send cookies', function(done) {
    agent
    .get('/return')
    .expect('hey', done);
  });
});
```
  
There is another example that is introduced by the file [agency.js](https://github.com/visionmedia/superagent/blob/master/test/node/agency.js)
  
Here is an example where 2 cookies are set on the request.

 ```js
agent(app)
  .get('/api/content')
  .set('Cookie', ['nameOne=valueOne;nameTwo=valueTwo'])
  .send()
  .expect(200)
  .end((err, res) => {
    if (err) {
      return done(err);
    }
    expect(res.text).to.be.equal('hey');
    return done();
  });
```

## API

You may use any [superagent](http://github.com/visionmedia/superagent) methods,
including `.write()`, `.pipe()` etc and perform assertions in the `.end()` callback
for lower-level needs.

### .expect(status[, fn])

Assert response `status` code.

### .expect(status, body[, fn])

Assert response `status` code and `body`.

### .expect(body[, fn])

Assert response `body` text with a string, regular expression, or
parsed body object.

### .expect(field, value[, fn])

Assert header `field` `value` with a string or regular expression.

### .expect(function(res) {})

Pass a custom assertion function. It'll be given the response object to check. If the check fails, throw an error.

```js
request(app)
  .get('/')
  .expect(hasPreviousAndNextKeys)
  .end(done);

function hasPreviousAndNextKeys(res) {
  if (!('next' in res.body)) throw new Error("missing next key");
  if (!('prev' in res.body)) throw new Error("missing prev key");
}
```

### .end(fn)

Perform the request and invoke `fn(err, res)`.

## Notes

Inspired by [api-easy](https://github.com/flatiron/api-easy) minus vows coupling.

## License

MIT

[coverage-badge]: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/visionmedia/supertest/badge.svg?branch=master
[coverage]: https://coveralls.io/github/visionmedia/supertest?branch=master
[travis-badge]: https://travis-ci.org/visionmedia/supertest.svg?branch=master
[travis]: https://travis-ci.org/visionmedia/supertest
[dependencies-badge]: https://david-dm.org/visionmedia/supertest/status.svg
[dependencies]: https://david-dm.org/visionmedia/supertest
[prs-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square
[prs]: http://makeapullrequest.com
[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat-square
[license]: https://github.com/visionmedia/supertest/blob/master/LICENSE

Commit message:

Added note about testing against HTTPS servers [ci skip]
Addresses issues #396 and #146

README.md, after:

# SuperTest 

[![Coveralls][coverage-badge]][coverage]
[![Build Status][travis-badge]][travis]
[![Dependencies][dependencies-badge]][dependencies]
[![PRs Welcome][prs-badge]][prs]
[![MIT License][license-badge]][license]

HTTP assertions made easy via [superagent](http://github.com/visionmedia/superagent).

## About

The motivation with this module is to provide a high-level abstraction for testing
HTTP, while still allowing you to drop down to the [lower-level API](https://visionmedia.github.io/superagent/) provided by superagent.

## Getting Started

Install SuperTest as an npm module and save it to your package.json file as a development dependency:

```bash
npm install supertest --save-dev
```

Once installed it can now be referenced by simply calling ```require('supertest');```

## Example

You may pass an `http.Server`, or a `Function` to `request()` - if the server is not
already listening for connections then it is bound to an ephemeral port for you so
there is no need to keep track of ports.

SuperTest works with any test framework, here is an example without using any
test framework at all:

```js
const request = require('supertest');
const express = require('express');

const app = express();

app.get('/user', function(req, res) {
  res.status(200).json({ name: 'john' });
});

request(app)
  .get('/user')
  .expect('Content-Type', /json/)
  .expect('Content-Length', '15')
  .expect(200)
  .end(function(err, res) {
    if (err) throw err;
  });
```

Here's an example with mocha, note how you can pass `done` straight to any of the `.expect()` calls:

```js
describe('GET /user', function() {
  it('responds with json', function(done) {
    request(app)
      .get('/user')
      .set('Accept', 'application/json')
      .expect('Content-Type', /json/)
      .expect(200, done);
  });
});
```

You can use `auth` method to pass HTTP username and password in the same way as in the [superagent](http://visionmedia.github.io/superagent/#authentication):

 ```js
describe('GET /user', function() {
  it('responds with json', function(done) {
    request(app)
      .get('/user')
      .auth('username', 'password')
      .set('Accept', 'application/json')
      .expect('Content-Type', /json/)
      .expect(200, done);
  });
});
```

One thing to note with the above statement is that superagent now sends any HTTP
error (anything other than a 2XX response code) to the callback as the first argument if
you do not add a status code expect (i.e. `.expect(302)`).

If you are using the `.end()` method `.expect()` assertions that fail will
not throw - they will return the assertion as an error to the `.end()` callback. In
order to fail the test case, you will need to rethrow or pass `err` to `done()`, as follows:

```js
describe('POST /users', function() {
  it('responds with json', function(done) {
    request(app)
      .post('/users')
      .send({name: 'john'})
      .set('Accept', 'application/json')
      .expect(200)
      .end(function(err, res) {
        if (err) return done(err);
        done();
      });
  });
});
```

You can also use promises:

```js
describe('GET /users', function() {
  it('responds with json', function() {
    return request(app)
      .get('/users')
      .set('Accept', 'application/json')
      .expect(200)
      .then(response => {
          assert(response.body.email, 'foo@bar.com')
      })
  });
});
```

Expectations are run in the order of definition. This characteristic can be used
to modify the response body or headers before executing an assertion.

```js
describe('POST /user', function() {
  it('user.name should be an case-insensitive match for "john"', function(done) {
    request(app)
      .post('/user')
      .send('name=john') // x-www-form-urlencoded upload
      .set('Accept', 'application/json')
      .expect(function(res) {
        res.body.id = 'some fixed id';
        res.body.name = res.body.name.toLowerCase();
      })
      .expect(200, {
        id: 'some fixed id',
        name: 'john'
      }, done);
  });
});
```

Anything you can do with superagent, you can do with supertest - for example multipart file uploads!

```js
request(app)
  .post('/')
  .field('name', 'my awesome avatar')
  .attach('avatar', 'test/fixtures/avatar.jpg')
  ...
```

Passing the app or url each time is not necessary, if you're testing
the same host you may simply re-assign the request variable with the
initialization app or url, a new `Test` is created per `request.VERB()` call.

```js
request = request('http://localhost:5555');

request.get('/').expect(200, function(err){
  console.log(err);
});

request.get('/').expect('heya', function(err){
  console.log(err);
});
```

Here's an example with mocha that shows how to persist a request and its cookies:

```js
const request = require('supertest');
const should = require('should');
const express = require('express');
const cookieParser = require('cookie-parser');

describe('request.agent(app)', function() {
  const app = express();
  app.use(cookieParser());

  app.get('/', function(req, res) {
    res.cookie('cookie', 'hey');
    res.send();
  });

  app.get('/return', function(req, res) {
    if (req.cookies.cookie) res.send(req.cookies.cookie);
    else res.send(':(')
  });

  const agent = request.agent(app);

  it('should save cookies', function(done) {
    agent
    .get('/')
    .expect('set-cookie', 'cookie=hey; Path=/', done);
  });

  it('should send cookies', function(done) {
    agent
    .get('/return')
    .expect('hey', done);
  });
});
```
  
There is another example that is introduced by the file [agency.js](https://github.com/visionmedia/superagent/blob/master/test/node/agency.js)
  
Here is an example where 2 cookies are set on the request.

 ```js
agent(app)
  .get('/api/content')
  .set('Cookie', ['nameOne=valueOne;nameTwo=valueTwo'])
  .send()
  .expect(200)
  .end((err, res) => {
    if (err) {
      return done(err);
    }
    expect(res.text).to.be.equal('hey');
    return done();
  });
```

### Note about testing against HTTPS servers
If you get an error along the lines of `Hostname/IP doesn't match certificate's altnames`, it's because by default, Node.js tries to validate the server certificate. The workaround for this is to set the environmental variable `NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED` to 0. However, this has **serious security implications**, as it lends itself to easier man-in-the-middle attacks, despite the data being encrypted. Use with caution!

## API

You may use any [superagent](http://github.com/visionmedia/superagent) methods,
including `.write()`, `.pipe()` etc and perform assertions in the `.end()` callback
for lower-level needs.

### .expect(status[, fn])

Assert response `status` code.

### .expect(status, body[, fn])

Assert response `status` code and `body`.

### .expect(body[, fn])

Assert response `body` text with a string, regular expression, or
parsed body object.

### .expect(field, value[, fn])

Assert header `field` `value` with a string or regular expression.

### .expect(function(res) {})

Pass a custom assertion function. It'll be given the response object to check. If the check fails, throw an error.

```js
request(app)
  .get('/')
  .expect(hasPreviousAndNextKeys)
  .end(done);

function hasPreviousAndNextKeys(res) {
  if (!('next' in res.body)) throw new Error("missing next key");
  if (!('prev' in res.body)) throw new Error("missing prev key");
}
```

### .end(fn)

Perform the request and invoke `fn(err, res)`.

## Notes

Inspired by [api-easy](https://github.com/flatiron/api-easy) minus vows coupling.

## License

MIT

[coverage-badge]: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/visionmedia/supertest/badge.svg?branch=master
[coverage]: https://coveralls.io/github/visionmedia/supertest?branch=master
[travis-badge]: https://travis-ci.org/visionmedia/supertest.svg?branch=master
[travis]: https://travis-ci.org/visionmedia/supertest
[dependencies-badge]: https://david-dm.org/visionmedia/supertest/status.svg
[dependencies]: https://david-dm.org/visionmedia/supertest
[prs-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square
[prs]: http://makeapullrequest.com
[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat-square
[license]: https://github.com/visionmedia/supertest/blob/master/LICENSE
